# 2022-03-09

## Meeting Link

[Join MS Teams meeting here](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_MTE0NmQwNDItMDk2NC00MWJjLTk3NjYtNzVkMzYwODU3M2M1%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%220cfca185-25f7-49e3-8ae7-704d5326e285%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%22e76e8444-bf17-4212-b407-066369e3264c%22%7d)

## Attendees

- Kris Rowe (Argonne)
- Tim Warburton (Virginia Tech)
- Noel Chalmers (AMD)
- Amik St-Cyr (Shell)
- Cedric Andreolli (Intel)
- Anoop Prabha Madhusoodhanan (Intel)
- Saumil Patel (Argonne)
- Stefan Kerkemeier (Argonne)
- Umesh Unnikrishnan (Argonne)

## Agenda

1. Introductions
2. Overview of the Technical Advisory Forum
3. Discussion/feedback on organization and structure of forum
4. Proposed first steps for the advisory forum
  

## Notes


### Structure of the Technical Advisory Forum

- The establishment of working groups focused on specific topics will be deferred to a later date.
- In the near-term, general meetings will focus on the highest priority topics.

### Community Profile

- OCCA's alignment with GitHub's [suggested community standards](https://github.com/libocca/occa/community) was reviewed.
- A [branch](https://github.com/libocca/occa/tree/community-profile) has been setup for collaborating the effort to improve OCCA's community standards.
- **Documentation** was identified a high-priority area for improvement.
  - An updated *Getting Started* guide
  - A tutorial-style, self-taught learning path
    - E.g., Jupyter-style notebooks could be useful for new users to learn the basics.
  - Build system and environment variable options
  - Best-practices, performance guide

- Using the wiki and discussion features on GitHub repository will make information available in one location.

### Development, Testing, and Releases

- A two-branch model was proposed for creating a regular release cycle moving forward
  - *main* will always contain the latest, versioned, production-ready code.
  - *development* will contain any new features which have been integrated through pull-requests
- At fixed time intervals (e.g. bi-monthly) the development branch will be merged into main and tagged as a new (minor) version.
- Diverse hardware is needed to ensure sufficient testing converage across all backends. Accessing this is an ongoing challenge.

## Action Items

- [ ] Enable wiki feature on OCCA GitHub
- [ ] Enable discussions feature on OCCA GitHub

## Next Meeting

[2022-03-23](2022-03-23.md)