# 2022-09-07

## Meeting Link

Thank you to all who attended for contributing to the discussion!

## Attendees

- Amik St-Cyr (Shell)
- Noel Chalmers (AMD)
- Tim Warburton (Virginia Tech)
- Umesh Unnikrishnan (Argonne)
- Saumil Patel (Argonne)
- Kris Rowe (Argonne) 

## Agenda

1. Kernel jitting 
2. General discussion about OKL

## Notes

### Kernel Jitting

- Possible caching issues still persist (e.g., with MPI or threaded usage).
- **Error reporting is not always helpful** (future PR plans to improve this)
  - Return/print the kernel source as part of error message
- Is kernel jitting fully thread-safe?
- Command-line parsing without substituting constants
  - Could be used to lint kernels

### General Discussion About OKL

#### Current State of OKL

- *Question: how many users are currently writing OKL kernels? What is their experience?*
- General experience is that overhead/performance penalty for OKL vs backend-specific kernels is very small
- Usefulness/performance vs generality
- There is need for a concise, well-defined OKL spec.
- General concern: hardware and languages are rapidly evolving. OCCA needs to keep-up to remain relevant.

#### Future Directions

##### Priorities

- Support for structs (also enums, pointers-to-X)
  - Kernel arguments
  - Translation
- Parser bypass (e.g., for intrinsics/inline assembly, etc.)

##### Mid to Long Term

- Is OKL C or C++?
  - E.g., OpenCL is C-base; however, other backends are C++ 
  - Which backends to continue supporting?
   
- Parser infrastructure
  - Tradeoff between not reinventing the wheel and portability, ease of use

- **Standard library functions**
  - Global---predefined kernels, E.g., sort, scan etc.
  - Within OKL code

- Vendor library usage
  - BLAS/LAPACK/FFTW

- Performance
  - Group collectives (broadcast, scan, permute, match, etc.)
  - Asynchronous data copies (global <-> local memory)
  - Primitives/intrinsics for specialized compute units 
    - Tensor cores
    - DPC++ ESIMD extensions
    - Ray-tracing

- Editor/IDE support

## Next Meeting

- [2022-09-21](2022-09-21.md)