# 2023-12-04

## Meeting Link

https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_ODdkYTI4MDUtYTZkZS00MjQxLTg0YjEtYzJlYWQ2NTUxZmY3%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%223dd8961f-e488-4e60-8e11-a82d994e183d%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%22283778cd-dac5-4948-96b5-f82885ad5d24%22%7d

## Follow-up

N/A

## Agenda

1. Brainstorm OCCA tools design for profiling OCCA apps

## Notes

- Resources
  - https://icl.utk.edu/papi/
  - hip support https://github.com/intel/pti-gpu/blob/master/chapters/device_activity_tracing/OpenCL.md
  - https://github.com/intel/pti-gpu/blob/master/chapters/runtime_api_tracing/OpenCL.md
  - intel: https://github.com/intel/pti-gpu/tree/master
  - https://github.com/argonne-lcf/THAPI

- Participant comments/thoughts
  - tracing start/stop are global triggers
    - need more granularity?  tracing specific device or kernel or memory object?
    - tagging a specific kernel, "everything that calls this will be traced"
  - occaprof, as well as code-level profiling
  - "i want a tool like nvprof"
  - brice and thomas have iprof (see THAPI below).
    - have cuda/hip/ocl/omp support.  reuse this
    - and add hooks for occa?
  - output:
   - traces stashed in default location
   - perfetto support probably easy to add if not already there
  - mpirun -n 8 occa_prof ./a.out -m HIP ...
  - nvprof time spent in kernels by default
  - to the first order users want:
    - time per kernel and memory traffic
    - what about host-side stuff like mpi?
  - rename cu and roc to occa?  not clear when user sees reported cu kernels
    where they are in their code
  - we could have a very invasive "track all the things" and keep our own
  - records inside occa
    - does this preclude iprof?
    - occa api calls we can do
    - opencl?  profiling mode?  can do event timings in sycl
    - openmp?  probably can do it there
      - occa openmp kernels are blocking so we can do gettimeofday
    - metal is a challenge
    - cuda and hip are fine
    - is occa responsible for generating consistent output format across
      vendors?
      - or fall back to vendor-specific output format?
    - add events to every occa kernel call?
      - some vendors implement event pools
    - multi-stream?
    - timer aggregration confuses the user in the presence of overlap
  - how do we get device timings?
  - wrap around different vendor profiling tools?  consume their output and
  - unify it.  or dump out what the vendor outputs.
    - do you want timers at the occa api level?
    - awkwardness: vendors deprecated tools
      - wrappers around command line tools vs calling vendor-provided APis
      - fallback?  what if thapi goes away?
  - ok with having an unsupported mode in the short-term?

- THAPI
  - thapi context:
    - something lower overhead than hpctoolkit/vtune/whatever
    - trace stuff
    - created because intel didn't have an 'nvprof'
    - started with an l0 backend
    - then did hip and cudart/cuda driver
    - now omp
    - uses lttng is the infrastructure for tracing
  - can occa give thapi some occa callbacks?
    - this flips around the semantics of how to use thapi
    - are we adding occa as a backend to thapi?
    - or are we wrapping thapi from occa?
    - thapi interface with omp using the ompt interface
      - https://www.openmp.org/spec-html/5.2/openmpch19.html#x364-37700019
    - thapi inserts events for device timings
  - thapi gets us first usecase with traces
  - hw counters?  papi.  vendors need to provide hooks into papi for device
    metrics?
  - can iprof do timelines in csv format?
    - no json
    - generate protobuf (max 2GiB) and view in perfetto
  - run with nekrs? yes
  - still proof of concept?  development?  or production ready?
    - kris:  people are using it now.
    - tom:  still work to do but it's very usable now
  - how easy is it to build and deploy?
    - challenging.  use spack.

## Action Items

- [ ] Set up next week's meeting

## Next Meeting

- Discuss THAPI interfacing to OCCA
